Everything seemed to happen to Evan on rooftops. Maybe he would have
been better to avoid them.

It was on a rooftop that he had seen his mother carried off screaming
by bat-winged creatures who swooped out of a red-black city dusk with
glowing eyes and long talons. 

Even at the tender age of fourteen, he had known that this was not the
sort of story one reported to others. So, when he had waited long
enough hidden behind the construction debris to be sure that they were
not coming back for him, he marched down the long stairs of his
red-brick apartment building and filed a missing person report at the
local police office.

He had never known his father. His mother told him stories of the
dashing Italian who had swept into her life, loved her so fully,
taught her so much, and then disappeared without a trace two days
before his birth. 

After investigating briefly and finding no evidence of murder, the
police determined that he was now an orphan and he started a rotation
of foster homes.

It was also on a rooftop that he had found a gold aureus shining
between the gravel. Minted in AD 69, it commemorated Vitellius the
deposer of Pontius Pilate. The details were so sharp and it showed
such little evidence of wear that the first appraisers thought it was
a forgery. However, later techniques analyzing the metal, the slag
content and the trace-elements confirmed its genuineness. No other
owner had been located. So, it was currently housed in the Smithsonian
as the best preserved first-century coin ever discovered. The United
States government had guaranteed him a life-time small yearly stipend
in return for its use.

Now, here he was on top of the University Library. 

(Opens janitor door - finds room with grass inside and fist-sized stones in a circle. Lifts up a stone and a blue light shines out. Surprised, he puts the stone down and bolts back out the door and shuts it. ... )
